the bit 16 you've never seen a review
like this Christmas games you cannot
take these things you don't miss since
man is the champion he is 16-bit
smashing 60
Batman Returns for the Super Nintendo as
my holiday present I'm going to review
it for you oh boy
based on the popular Tim Burton Batman
movie this is also the most popular
Super Nintendo Batman game why is it so
popular well let's take a look and get
down to gaming our opening cutscene
shows us a dark skyline of Gotham City
then jutting out of nowhere is Michael
Keaton is Batman right after this we see
Batman racing to the scene of the crime
in his fancy Batmobile welcome to your
first level as Batman as far as Batman
games go this is one of the best it was
made by Konami a great company that
makes all kinds of action games like
this like Mario Batman has to plow
through waves of enemies but in this
case it's not goombas it's clowns
luckily you get cool moves to take them
down like jump kicks your Batarang test
tube bombs and many throws there's all
kinds of ways to throw these clowns
around one of the ways is to throw them
through shop window displays doesn't
that give you Christmas spirit the most
famous though is where Batman slams to
clowns heads together now that's brutal
the graphics are great and detailed and
there's also a cool Christmas theme to
this game there's always snow there are
Christmas trees and of course evil
clowns jumping out of Christmas presents
this is what the holiday has stooped to
Santa how has your holiday spawned so
much violence
good old Christmas beat-em-ups
anyway let's talk about the level design
after the first level you start going in
these strictly two-dimensional levels on
these levels you can't punch that's
right you have to throw batarangs
instead and I really don't like this
because when enemies jump at you the
Batarang doesn't have enough force to
knock them away so you're constantly
getting hurt over and over
the only other move you have in these 2d
levels is the grappling hook which can
be pretty awkward but the hardest part
of the game is the boss battles they
start out pretty easy especially when
you can move around and punch like
normal but once you get to the hard
stages like the penguin they become
ridiculous all you have is your stupid
Batarang and a bunch of smart bombs at
least now you know what to ask Santa for
for Christmas mercy
the bosses seem really unfair to me for
some reason they have ridiculous amounts
of health and attack patterns that you
can't really dodge or learn and whose
bright idea was it to make you have to
fight Catwoman two times in a row
I'm usually a fan of video game bosses
but these ones just left me with a sour
experience but still there are lots of
things I like about this game on the
normal levels where you can punch and
kick the action is tight responsive and
fast the controls are very responsive
and work fine there's also quite a bit
of variety for a beat em up game most
these games are standard beat up the
waves of enemies but this one mixes it
up a little bit I also loved the
orchestral Danny Elfman style music
they did a good job with this music
unlike a certain other Batman game we
know of Batman Forever a game that mocks
everything Batman stands for turn it off
my ears can't bleed anymore
Batman forever is one of those movie
based game failures where they tried
hard but did a terrible job this game
was truly wretched not because of the
graphics and the music but because of
the gameplay just try getting that
grappling hook up there Batman so in
conclusion we should be eternally
grateful to Konami for giving us a good
Batman game things to make it better an
improved version of the side-scrolling
levels you should be able to punch
without having to get really close to
your enemies Batarang should never be
your prime weapon better boss designs
with memorable patterns and less health
a password option and possibly a
two-player mode that would make this
game more rich of an experience Batman
Returns still a good game though so the
question is how will this measure up on
my excellent grading system from 1 to 10
on my system a number one is a wretched
horrible game even worse than Batman
forever and a 10 is an incredible game
one of the top games on the Super
Nintendo
so get ready judges this is going to be
the judgment of a lifetime Batman
Returns for the Super Nintendo scores a
7 out of 10 oh the nerve why didn't you
give Batman a better score well I did
think it was the best Batman game on the
Super Nintendo but even then it's not
incredible it has some pretty big flaws
like what the side-scrolling levels
where you couldn't punch the long
lengthy annoying bomb those builds
character
Batman Returns may not be perfect but
still Konami did a good job and it's a
fun game the action is intense the
graphics are good the music is pounding
it's overall a good game there were
three Batman games and here's my rundown
of it Batman Forever was true
bottom-feeding filth destroy it if you
can get your hands on it The Adventures
of Batman and Robin had a ton of
potential but the problem is it's rare
hard to get your hands on it and the
gameplay isn't as good as the potential
that leaves Batman Returns as the best
of the series if you're a big Batman fan
or a huge brawler fan don't listen to
any of my negative statements just play
it alright everyone it's the winter
season so I'm gonna close you all with a
merry song
well it's Christmas and I have got a
plan go play Batman genius